As you are probably aware, since 2011 there is an
arrangement between some of the major AI conferences and IJCAI that
allows authors to present  the best papers from these conferences in
a special Sister Conference Best Paper Track at IJCAI. The Sister
Conference Track has become one of the most popular tracks at IJCAI.

The program chairs of CADE have confirmed that your CADE-25 paper "A
Decision Procedure for (Co)datatypes in SMT Solvers" is an excellent piece
of work and would be suitable for presentation to a wider audience. We have
great pleasure in inviting you to submit this work of yours for inclusion in
this track.

We believe this is a way to celebrate work like yours, to give your
work exposure to a more general audience, and to help tackle the
splintering of the research community into separate discipline
conferences. As you may know, IJCAI'16 is going to be held in
New York (http://ijcai-16.org/).

We are asking authors to prepare a new version that is more accessible
to the wider IJCAI audience. This solves any copyright issues. And by
including a more general paper in the IJCAI proceedings,
the IJCAI delegates have material to read to get more technical
insight and references. In addition, IJCAI proceedings are
freely available online (and widely cited) so your exposure will
go beyond just the delegates attending the conference itself.

Your paper will need to fit into 4 pages (+1 page references) using
the IJCAI two column format. Formatting instructions can be found at:

http://ijcai-16.org/downloads/FormattingGuidelinesIJCAI-16.zip

Your paper will be lightly reviewed, but mostly for accessibility
and so that we can continue to claim that the IJCAI proceedings
are fully reviewed. We don't expect any technical issues but the
reviewers may have some useful input to give to help make your
work even more accessible. We are also aware that some of you can
only go to conference to present work which has been through a
referee process so we want your paper to count as such. To give
time for the referees to provide some input, we ask for you to upload
your paper by February 29, 2016. The final camera ready copy will be
due by April 20.

Please submit your paper through the IJCAI'16 submission site:

https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=ijcai16

and start by selecting the *special* Track "Sister Conference Best
Paper Track". If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us.
We look forwards to receiving seeing you in New York. We would have
liked to offer you some financial support but with around 15 sister
conferences participating (and thus roughly 30 best papers
being presented over the whole week), our budget does not
allow this. We will, however, look forward to giving you a
Best Paper certificate to go with the one from the original conference.

Finally, could you please simply acknowledge receiving this email and
let us know if you are interested in presenting your work in the
IJCAI Sister Conference Best Paper track?
