TODO:

  * Page 5, Induction: adding the range for $k$ and $i$ in the $\land$s
    might be helpful. The same applies to coinduction

  * Page 5, Coinduction: I would suggest to add parenthesis in order to
    improve the reading.

  * Page 7, Phase 2: there is a sequence of term1 != term2 != term3.
    How should the reader interpret this? Are all pairwise different?

  * Page 12, Lemma 2: who is $x$? Any variable? A concrete one?
    The same applies to $y$ in the second point.

  * I found the "Solution Soundness" proof hard to follow, but I cannot think
    of a better way to improve it. Maybe taking a running example and showing
    how J and A* are constructed might help and this is the only big change I
    would suggest the authors to make.

  - the description of the induction and coinduction rule is currently quite
    dense, and not very easy to follow. The connectives in the rules range over
    several indices, and it is quite hard at the moment to keep track of all of
    them. I would ask the authors to:
    1. rewrite the rules by making the indices explicit
    2. provide a simple example of application of the rules for the benefit of
       the reader

  - the procedure is complete only if all ordinary types have infinite
    cardinality. The paper observes that this is not a problem, because ordinary
    types with finite cardinality n can be viewed as datatypes with n
    constructors. I wonder how practical this is, especially in situations in
    which n is finite but large (e.g. bit-vectors). More specifically, it would
    be interesting to understand whether this is actually the strategy used in
    the implementation, or if instead some other "trick" is applied
    (e.g. similarly to what is done for improving the precision when solving
    quantified problems)

  - regarding the integration into CDCL(T), it would be interesting to read more
    about the generation of explanations. In particular, does the procedure
    ensure that explanations are minimal/irredundant? If not, does this have an
    impact in practice? E.g. does it make sense to try to minimize the produced
    explanations, or would the cost outweigh the benefit? 

  - Page 17: "By assuming ... infinite cardinality". I had to read the sentence
    a few times before realizing it was not a typo. Although I'm not a native
    English speaker, perhaps this could be rephrased, e.g. "Since it assumes
    that ... infinite cardinality, ".
